---
layout: post
title: GoBuster
description: Enumerating web directories on a target server  
date: 2025-04-04 15:01:35 +0300
image: '/images/07.jpg'
tags: [Linux]
toc: true
---

GoBuster is a reconnaissance tool used to enumerate web directories, subdomains, s3 buckeyts and virtual hosts using specific wordlists. It's used for penetration testing, bug bounty hunting, and cyber security assessments, between thw reconnaissance and scanning phases.

A web directory can be enumerated as follows:

`gobuster dir -u "http://www.target.com/" -w /usr/share/wordlists/dirb/small.txt -t 64`

It uses a brute-force dictionary attack similar to tools like John. In the case of GoBuster, entries in the worldlist are concatenated with the provided target url.

### Directory and file enumeration
Gobuster has a `dir` mode, allowing users to enumerate website directories and their files. This is useful when performing a penetration test to map the directory structure of a site and the files it contains.

Directory structures of web sites and apps often follow particular conventions, making them susceptible to Brute Force using wordlists. For example Wordpress sites always have directorites such as:

* wp-admin
* wp-content
* wp-includes


Gobuster scans the target website and returns static http codes which indicate if that directory can be accessed or not.

### Subdomain Enumeration
`dns` mode allws Gobuster to brute force subdomains. Checking subdomains of a target’s top domain is essential. Just because something is patched in the regular domain, it doesn't mean it is also patched in the subdomain.

* if TryHackMe owns *tryhackme.thm* and *mobile.tryhackme.thm*, there may be a vulnerability in *mobile.tryhackme.thm* that is not present in *tryhackme*.

  `gobuster dns -d example.thm -w /path/to/wordlist`

  `gobuster dns -d example.thm -w /usr/share/wordlists/SecLists/Discovery/DNS/subdomains-top1million-5000.txt`

  * Gobuster appends the domain name to every word in th file e.g. [blah].example.thm

### Vhost enumeration
GoBuster is also abvle to brute force virtual hosts which are different websites hosted on the same server which can look like subdomains.

* `vhost` mode is differnet to DNS - it will navigate to the URL created by combining hostname + wordlist
* It sets the host header to different valued and and checks HTTP responses rather than doing a dns lookup.
* This can find hidden sites like staging / dev / admin 

  `gobuster vhost -u "http://example.thm" -w /path/to/wordlist`

  `gobuster vhost -u "http://10.10.172.116" --domain example.thm -w [wordlist] --append-domain --exclude-length 250-320 `

* `--domain example.thm` sets the top- and second-level domains in the Hostname part of the request to example.thm.
* `--append-domain` appends the configured domain to each entry in the wordlist. If this flag is not configured, the set hostname would be *www*, *blog*, etc. This will cause the command to work incorrectly and display false positives.
* `--exclude-length` filters the responses we get from the sent web requests. With this flag, we can filter out the false positives.

